FN Clarivate Analytics Web of Science
VR 1.0
PT J
AU Prabha Moirangthem, Prabha Moirangthem
   Dipanker Dey, Dipanker Dey
   Singh, H. P.
   Batish, D. R.
TI Surrogate biomarkers of pesticide toxicity among pesticide Handlers.
SO Indo Global Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences
VL 4
IS 3
PS 163
PY 2014
U1 0
U2 0
AB Biochemical responses to xenobiotic compound including pesticides
   provide a measure of toxic effect as they serve as useful tools for the
   measurement and estimation of biologically active/passive exposure
   through environmental monitoring using biological samples or human
   tissues and body fluids like serum, fat, urine, blood, or breast milk by
   the usual analytical techniques. The present paper reviews and discusses
   the recent findings on these biomarkers in relation to the current and
   future use in environmental and occupational human health monitoring.
   The objective of this review is to highlight the importance of
   biomarkers of oxidative stress as surrogate markers of pesticide
   toxicity among the pesticide handlers like the chemical industry
   producing pesticides, people spraying pesticides and people dedicated to
   agricultural works. This study is done by reviewing previous
   epidemiologic studies that have evaluated and discussed methods to
   characterize the biomarkers of pesticide exposure. Most studies describe
   techniques for biomonitoring effects which may detect early changes
   induced by many pesticides and which have the potential to accelerate
   data gathering. Significant changes in the levels of biomarkers as well
   as the activities of antioxidant enzymes in pesticide-exposed
   individuals were observed in most of the studies reviewed. Biomarkers
   will have a major impact on the study of environmental risk factors.
   Researcher sought to focus on characterization of the nature of the
   biomarkers and determination of the consequences of physiological and
   genetic changes or variations, with the ultimate purpose of predicting
   or preventing disease. Expanding the knowledge of the already identified
   markers and its employment in the research study will provide vital
   purpose in ensuring design, formulation and safety of pesticides. The
   incorporation of in vitro, animal, and human data will give a clear
   picture of a marker's performance.
UT CABI:20143418810
DT Journal article; Conference paper
LA English
CT International Conference on Life Sciences, Informatics, Food and
   Environment (IC-LIFE 2014), Uttar Pradesh, India, 29-30 August 2014.
C1 Division of Natural Resource Management, ICAR-RC (NEH), Barapani, Umiam,
   Meghalaya, India
EM prabsmoirang@gmail.com
PU Indo Global Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences
PI New Delhi, India
SC Environmental Sciences & Ecology; Toxicology; Chemistry; Public,
   Environmental & Occupational Health (provided by Clarivate Analytics)
SN 2249-1023
CC HH430Pesticide and Drug Residues and Ecotoxicology (NEW March 2000);
   VV810Human Toxicology and Poisoning (NEW March 2000); VV900Occupational
   Health and Safety
DE biochemical markers; enzymes; occupational hazards; oxidative stress;
   pesticides; poisoning; reviews; risk factors; spraymen; toxicity;
   biological markers
UR http://www.iglobaljournal.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/36.-Moirangthem-et-al-I
DA 2024-04-07
ER

EF