FN Clarivate Analytics Web of Science
VR 1.0
PT B
AU Erguven, Gokhan Onder
   Yildirim, Numan
   Yildirim, Nuran Cikcikoglu
TI Use of oxidative biomarkers in the evaluation of bioremediation
   efficiency.
SO AGBIOL 2021. III International Agricultural, Biological & Life Science
   Conference, Edirne, Turkey, 1-3 September 2021. Proceedings
PS 714-722
PY 2021
U1 0
U2 0
AB Bioremediation of pesticide contaminated sites with bacteria that are
   adapted to these pesticides or genetically engineered for biodegradation
   of persistent organic pollutants are a study area that is currently
   being explored as an alternative remediation techniques. Biomarkers have
   been developed to track the survival and efficiency of specific
   agricultural soil bacteria that are used as inocula for bioremediation
   of pesticide contaminated agricultural fields. Examples of biomarkers
   like catalase (CAT), glutathione S-transferase.(GST), cytochrome P4501A1
   (CYP1A1) activities in Gammarus pulex can be useful for these kind of
   studies. Other biomarkers can also be used for monitoring of microbial
   inocula used for bioaugmentation or bioremediation of pesticide
   contaminated receiving environments. The choice of biomarker and
   monitoring system depends on the particular site, bacterial strain and
   sensitivity and specificity of detection required. According to the
   results of the most studies, CYP1A1, CAT, and GST activities in G. pulex
   sanctioned the capability of soil bacteria in bioremediation of
   pesticides. Isolated and enriched bacteria and microbial consortia can
   be helpful for decrease of the chemical oxygen demand (COD) and
   biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5), pH and dissolved oxygen parameters of
   the pesticide contaminated aquatic environments. This means these
   parameters can give a useful alternative opinion for screening the
   active material of the pesticide. As we know, monitoring the active
   material of the pesticides with chromotographic methods and using these
   devices are very expensive. At the final phase of the bioremediation
   step, it was determined that these bacteria have efficient
   bioremediation properties at a rate of up to 80%. According to recent
   studies soil bacteria can be used for bioremediate the receiving
   environments that are polluted by pesticides. The treatment efficiency
   of these bacteria can be determined by monitoring changes in some
   biochemical biomarkers in G. pulex.
UT CABI:20220173355
DT Conference paper
LA English
CT AGBIOL 2021. III International Agricultural, Biological & Life Science
   Conference, Edirne, Turkey, 1-3 September 2021.
C1 Department of Political Science and Public Administration, Department of
   Urbanization and Environmental Issues, Faculty of Economics and
   Administrative Sciences, Munzur University, Tunceli, Turkey
   Department of Plant and Animal Production, Tunceli Vocational School,
   Munzur University, Tunceli, Turkey
   Department of Veterinary Medicine, Laboratorian and Veterinarian Health
   Programme, Pertek Sakine Genc Vocational School, Munzur University,
   Tunceli, Turkey
PU Trakya University
PI Edirne, Turkey
SC Environmental Sciences & Ecology; Agriculture; Biotechnology & Applied
   Microbiology; Microbiology; Chemistry; Toxicology (provided by Clarivate
   Analytics)
BN 9789753743013
CC PP600Pollution and Degradation; JJ100Soil Biology; XX700Biodegradation;
   ZZ394Biochemistry and Physiology of Microorganisms (NEW March 2000);
   HH430Pesticide and Drug Residues and Ecotoxicology (NEW March 2000)
DE bioremediation; monitoring; biochemical markers; biochemical oxygen
   demand; catalase; chemical oxygen demand; enzymes; glutathione;
   pollutants; screening; soil bacteria; survival; glutathione transferase;
   cytochrome P-450; enzyme activity; pesticides; pesticide residues; soil
   flora; biological markers
OR Gammarus pulex; Bacteria
BD Gammarus; Gammaridae; Amphipoda; Malacostraca; Crustacea; arthropods;
   invertebrates; animals; eukaryotes; prokaryotes
NR 43 ref.
DA 2024-04-07
ER

EF